awx/main/templates/main/_list_common.md, before:

The resulting data structure contains:

    {
        "count": 99, 
        "next": null, 
        "previous": null, 
        "results": [
            ...
        ]
    }

The `count` field indicates the total number of {{ model_verbose_name_plural }}
found for the given query.  The `next` and `previous` fields provides links to
additional results if there are more than will fit on a single page.  The
`results` list contains zero or more {{ model_verbose_name }} records.  

## Results

Each {{ model_verbose_name }} data structure includes the following fields:

{% include "main/_result_fields_common.md" %}

## Sorting

To specify that {{ model_verbose_name_plural }} are returned in a particular
order, use the `order_by` query string parameter on the GET request.

    ?order_by={{ order_field }}

Prefix the field name with a dash `-` to sort in reverse:

    ?order_by=-{{ order_field }}

Multiple sorting fields may be specified by separating the field names with a
comma `,`:

    ?order_by={{ order_field }},some_other_field

## Pagination

Use the `page_size` query string parameter to change the number of results
returned for each request.  Use the `page` query string parameter to retrieve
a particular page of results.

    ?page_size=100&page=2

The `previous` and `next` links returned with the results will set these query
string parameters automatically.

## Filtering

Any additional query string parameters may be used to filter the list of
results returned to those matching a given value.  Only fields and relations
that exist in the database may be used for filtering.  Any special characters
in the specified value should be url-encoded. For example:

    ?field=value%20xyz

Fields may also span relations, only for fields and relationships defined in
the database: 

    ?other__field=value

To exclude results matching certain criteria, prefix the field parameter with
`not__`:

    ?not__field=value

Field lookups may also be used for more advanced queries, by appending the
lookup to the field name:

    ?field__lookup=value

The following field lookups are supported:

* `exact`: Exact match (default lookup if not specified).
* `iexact`: Case-insensitive version of `exact`.
* `contains`: Field contains value.
* `icontains`: Case-insensitive version of `contains`.
* `startswith`: Field starts with value.
* `istartswith`: Case-insensitive version of `startswith`.
* `endswith`: Field ends with value.
* `iendswith`: Case-insensitive version of `endswith`.
* `regex`: Field matches the given regular expression.
* `iregex`: Case-insensitive version of `regex`.
* `gt`: Greater than comparison.
* `gte`: Greater than or equal to comparison.
* `lt`: Less than comparison.
* `lte`: Less than or equal to comparison.
* `isnull`: Check whether the given field or related object is null; expects a
  boolean value.
* `in`: Check whether the given field's value is present in the list provided;
  expects a list of items.

Boolean values may be specified as `True` or `1` for true, `False` or `0` for
false (both case-insensitive).

Null values may be specified as `None` or `Null` (both case-insensitive),
though it is preferred to use the `isnull` lookup to explicitly check for null
values.

Lists (for the `in` lookup) may be specified as a comma-separated list of
values.

Commit message:

Added API support for OR queries and searching text fields.

awx/main/templates/main/_list_common.md, after:

The resulting data structure contains:

    {
        "count": 99, 
        "next": null, 
        "previous": null, 
        "results": [
            ...
        ]
    }

The `count` field indicates the total number of {{ model_verbose_name_plural }}
found for the given query.  The `next` and `previous` fields provides links to
additional results if there are more than will fit on a single page.  The
`results` list contains zero or more {{ model_verbose_name }} records.  

## Results

Each {{ model_verbose_name }} data structure includes the following fields:

{% include "main/_result_fields_common.md" %}

## Sorting

To specify that {{ model_verbose_name_plural }} are returned in a particular
order, use the `order_by` query string parameter on the GET request.

    ?order_by={{ order_field }}

Prefix the field name with a dash `-` to sort in reverse:

    ?order_by=-{{ order_field }}

Multiple sorting fields may be specified by separating the field names with a
comma `,`:

    ?order_by={{ order_field }},some_other_field

## Pagination

Use the `page_size` query string parameter to change the number of results
returned for each request.  Use the `page` query string parameter to retrieve
a particular page of results.

    ?page_size=100&page=2

The `previous` and `next` links returned with the results will set these query
string parameters automatically.

## Searching

Use the `search` query string parameter to perform a case-insensitive search
within all designated text fields of a model.

    ?search=findme

_New in AWX 1.4_

## Filtering

Any additional query string parameters may be used to filter the list of
results returned to those matching a given value.  Only fields and relations
that exist in the database may be used for filtering.  Any special characters
in the specified value should be url-encoded. For example:

    ?field=value%20xyz

Fields may also span relations, only for fields and relationships defined in
the database: 

    ?other__field=value

To exclude results matching certain criteria, prefix the field parameter with
`not__`:

    ?not__field=value

(_New in AWX 1.4_) By default, all query string filters are AND'ed together, so
only the results matching *all* filters will be returned.  To combine results
matching *any* one of multiple criteria, prefix each query string parameter
with `or__`:

    ?or__field=value&or__field=othervalue
    ?or__not__field=value&or__field=othervalue

Field lookups may also be used for more advanced queries, by appending the
lookup to the field name:

    ?field__lookup=value

The following field lookups are supported:

* `exact`: Exact match (default lookup if not specified).
* `iexact`: Case-insensitive version of `exact`.
* `contains`: Field contains value.
* `icontains`: Case-insensitive version of `contains`.
* `startswith`: Field starts with value.
* `istartswith`: Case-insensitive version of `startswith`.
* `endswith`: Field ends with value.
* `iendswith`: Case-insensitive version of `endswith`.
* `regex`: Field matches the given regular expression.
* `iregex`: Case-insensitive version of `regex`.
* `gt`: Greater than comparison.
* `gte`: Greater than or equal to comparison.
* `lt`: Less than comparison.
* `lte`: Less than or equal to comparison.
* `isnull`: Check whether the given field or related object is null; expects a
  boolean value.
* `in`: Check whether the given field's value is present in the list provided;
  expects a list of items.

Boolean values may be specified as `True` or `1` for true, `False` or `0` for
false (both case-insensitive).

Null values may be specified as `None` or `Null` (both case-insensitive),
though it is preferred to use the `isnull` lookup to explicitly check for null
values.

Lists (for the `in` lookup) may be specified as a comma-separated list of
values.
