***********************
Controller Logfiles
***********************

.. index::
   single: logfiles

The controller logfiles have been consolidated and can be easily accessed from two centralized locations:

- ``/var/log/tower/``
- ``/var/log/supervisor/``


In the ``/var/log/tower/`` directory, you can view logfiles related to:

- **callback_receiver.log:** captures callback receiver logs that handles callback events when running ansible jobs.
- **dispatcher.log:** captures log messages for the controller dispatcher worker service. 
- **job_lifecycle.log:** captures details of the job run, whether it is blocked, and what condition is blocking it.
- **management_playbooks.log:** captures the logs of management playbook runs, the isolated job runs like copying the metadata, etc.
- **rsyslog.err:** captures rsyslog errors authenticating with external logging services when sending logs to them.
- **task_system.log:** - captures the logs of tasks that the controller is running in the background, such as adding cluster instances and logs related to information gathering/processing for analytics, etc.
- **tower.log:** captures the log messages such as runtime errors that occur when the job is executed.
- **tower_rbac_migrations.log:** captures the logs for rbac database migration or upgrade.
- **tower_system_tracking_migrations.log:** captures the logs the controller system tracking migration or upgrade.
- **wsbroadcast.log:** captures the logs of websocket connections in the controller nodes.


In the ``/var/log/supervisor/`` directory, you can view logfiles related to:

- **awx-callback-receiver.log:** captures the log of callback receiver that handles callback events when running ansible jobs, managed by supervisord.
- **awx-daphne.log:** captures the logs of Websocket communication of WebUI.
- **awx-dispatcher.log:** captures the logs that occur when dispatching a task to a controller instance, such as when running a job.
- **awx-rsyslog.log:** captures the logs for rsyslog service.
- **awx-uwsgi.log:** captures the logs related to uWSGI, which is an application server.
- **awx-wsbroadcast.log:** captures the logs of websocket service that is used by the controller.
- **failure-event-handler.stderr.log:** captures the standard errors for /usr/bin/failure-event-handler supervisord's subprocess.
- **supervisord.log:** captures the logs related to supervisord itself.

The ``/var/log/supervisor/`` directory includes ``stdout`` files for all services as well.


You can expect the following log paths to be generated by services used by Tower (and the |aap|):

- **/var/log/nginx/** 
- **/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_log/**
- **/var/log/redis/**
 

::

   "Mooving around: Consolidated logfiles for easier access!"
       \     
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||
